3.
Experimental location.
The study area consists of 169.6 acres of leased land located
approximately 10 miles east of Cuero in DeWitt County, Texas. Live-
stock are excluded from the study location by a three-strand barbed
wire, suspension-type fence with gates located on opposing corners
(Appendix A).
According to the U. S. Soil Conservation Service the study area
is a sandy prairie site having soils in the Fordtran, Katy and Edna
series (Appendix B). The principal grasses include brownseed paspalum
(Paspalum plicatulum Michx.), little bluestem (Schizachyrium scoparium
Michx.) and knotroot bristlegrass (Setaria geniculata (Lam.) Beauv.),
with scattered areas containing red lovegrass (Eragrostis oxylepis
(Torr.) Torr.), rattail smutgrass (Spprobo1is po i re til (Roem. and
Schult.) Hitchc.) and some colonies of Indiangrass (Sorghastrum spp).
The most prevalent broadleaf herbaceous plant is sneezeweed (Helenium
amarum (Raf.) H. Rock). Sprout regrowth of liveoak (Quercus virginiana
Mill) and yaupon (Ilex vomitoria Ait.) up to five feet tall together
with scattered trees or sprouts of blackjack oak (Quercus marilandica
Muench) compose the overstory vegetation (Figure 1).
Climatological records for the twenty-year period ending in 1968
showed an average rainfall of 32.52 inches for the Cuero area. Rain-
fall amounts ranged from a low of 13.92 inches in 1956 to a high of
49.05 inches in 1960 (u. S. Weather Bureau, 1968).
Herbicide applications.
During late summer 1968, 80 one-acre plots, 544.5 ft x 80.0 ft,
were permanently staked in the study location. Individual plots were
oriented with the long side parallel to the east-west axis (Appendix
A), and isolated inside a border 30 feet wide. Within each of the
plots, 30 points located at random were permanently marked for vege-
tation inventory using the point-center quarter method. The field
plots were organized as a randomized complete block design with two
replications.
A stationary rain gauge, U. S. Weather Bureau type, was placed
in open terrain on the south central portion of the experimental
area.
The herbicide materials listed in Table 1 were applied during
the fall 1968 and spring 1969 using the type of aircraft indicated.
The fixed-wing aircraft was a Snow, Model S2, fitted with a Swath-
master distributor (Figure 2), furnished by the Gulf Coast Aerial
Spray Service, Inc. of Tivoli, Texas. The rotary-wing equipment for
the fall application was provided by Allied Helicopter Service Inc.
of Tulsa, Oklahoma. The aircraft for the spring application was
furnished by Boyl's Aviation of Sinton, Texas.